DOCSP-51700-IS-ayt-suggestions (#281)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/solutions-library/retail-as-you-type-suggestions.txt

> Solution Overview

Reviewer: For Products lets use the complete name as follows: MongoDB Atlas, MongoDB Atlas Vector Search

-----------------

As-you-type functionality — also known as
autocomplete, autosuggest, or predictive
search — often refers to low-level character matching, as opposed to a
purpose-built, comprehensive solution. This functionality helps you navigate
quickly to desired, relevant content. Looking up the movie 

> "The Matrix" by typing “matr,” into the search bar is an example of as-you-type 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"The Matrix" by typing “matr” into the search bar is an example of as-you-type 
```

-------------------

Each suggestion presented to the user represents a unique entity of your
domain. Entities must be modeled as individual documents in a specialized
collection tuned for as-you-type suggestibility. 

The main collection usually represents one type of entity as documents, and 
other domain entities as metadata fields or embedded documents. For example, 
consider using the sample movies data available within Atlas. As you type, the 

> search suggests movie names. However, you could also search for cast member 
> names. For example, you could find movies starring Keanu Reeves by typing only

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
search suggests movie names. However, you can also search for cast member 
names. For example, you can find movies starring Keanu Reeves by typing only
```

"kea".

The data model has the following schema:

- ``_id``: unique id for this collection in the form ``<type>-<natural id>``. 
- ``type``: entity/object type, e.g. movie, brand, person product, and category.
- ``name``: the name or title of the entity, which would generally be unique per type.

It’s important that entity documents have stable, unique identifiers, as
the entities are regularly refreshed from the main collection.
Assigning a ``type`` to each entity allows for filtering (only suggest cast
members in an actor-specific lookup), grouping (organize the

> suggestions by type), or boosting by type (movie titles could have a
> higher weighting than cast member names).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
suggestions by type), or boosting by type (weight movies higher than cast
member names).
```

   }
   

> Buildthe Solution

Reviewer: It's missing a space: Build the Solution

Building the Solution
---------------------

First, identify the suggestible entities in your data. In
the movies scenario, these would include movie titles, cast member
names, and perhaps genres and director names too.  

The basis of this as-you-type suggestion system is as follows:

1. Create an ``entities`` collection and populate it using the schema modeled above. As often as warranted, refresh the ``entities`` collection. 
2. Create an Atlas Search ``entities_index`` using an index configuration as described below. 

> 3. Craft a robust set of query clauses, along with any pertinent boosting factors, within a $search-using aggregation pipeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Craft a robust set of query clauses, along with any pertinent boosting factors, within 
   an aggregation pipeline that uses ``$search``.
```

Importing Entities 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> While there are multiple ways to populate the “entities” collection,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While there are multiple ways to populate the ``entities`` collection,
```

> entities with the same name to be independent from one another (there

Reviewer 2: above: add "stage" after ``$project``, and put entities into monospace

mappings and see what matches. The more matches found, the higher the
suggestion is ranked. Each of the query clauses can be independently
increased and summed, giving a relevancy score for the matching entity.
These scores could be further increased by other factors such as an
optional entity ``weight`` field. 

.. figure:: /includes/images/industry-solutions/retail-as-you-type-querying.png
   :figwidth: 1200px
   :alt: Example query and relevancy scoring computation

   Figure 3. Example query and relevancy scoring computation

Generally, a user selecting a suggestion then performs a targeted traditional 
search for the selected item. The search then returns all matching items.

Visit the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/mongodb-developer/atlas-search-as-you-type-suggest>`__ to this solution. 

Key Learnings
-------------

- **Use a specialized index configuration to model suggestible entities as 
  documents:** You can follow the steps above to create a separate collection 
  that contains all entities from any source. 

- **Model suggestible entities as documents with a specialized index
  configuration:** This could be done as described above in a separate

>   collection containing entities from any source. 

Reviewer: Let's remove this paragraph, as it's repeated twice with the section. The following paragraph is:

Use a specialized index configuration to model suggestible entities as documents: You can follow the steps above to create a separate collection that contains all entities from any source.

- **Create an index with these configuration techniques:** If your main collection models all suggestible entities as

>   top-level documents.

Reviewer: - **Create indexes with these configurations:** Use these index settings when your main collection models all suggestible entities as top-level documents.

- **Use a specialized index configuration to model suggestible entities as 
  documents:** You can follow the steps above to create a separate collection 
  that contains all entities from any source. 

Key Considerations
------------------
- **Model suggestible entities as documents with a specialized index
  configuration:** This could be done as described above in a separate
  collection containing entities from any source. 

Model suggestible entities as documents with a specialized index
configuration: This could be done as described above in a separate
collection containing entities from any source. Or, if your main
collection models all suggestible entities as top-level documents
already, an index can be created or an existing one augmented to use the
index configuration techniques described here.
- **Create an index with these configuration techniques:** If your main collection models all suggestible entities as
  top-level documents.

Craft clever queries: Leverage the index structure, generating rich and
nuanced queries to match entities and rank suggestions as desired.

> 

Reviewer: Let's keep this learning as follows: 

Use the index structure to craft clever queries: Use your index to match entities and rank suggestions as desired.

> MongoDB Developer Data Platform

Reviewer: Let's remove MongoDB Developer Data Platform section

> Author

Reviewer: Let's use Authors

> - Erik Hatcher, MongoDB

Reviewer: After Authors let's add a Learn More section.

In the Learn More section, we're adding three solutions libraries related to the solution. For this article, I propose the following solutions:

Learn More
----------

- :ref:`arch-center-is-ai-product-search`

- :ref:`arch-center-is-product-description`

- :ref:`arch-center-is-event-driven-inventory`

> filtering, and a ``stringFacet`` field to provide a means to get counts

Reviewer 2: above (can't comment) the sentence "a multitude ("multi") of ways (the feature is called
“multi”-analyzers)." can be rewritten as something less casual

      { $merge: { into: "entities" } }
   ]

Visit the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/mongodb-developer/atlas-search-as-you-type-suggest>`__ to this solution. 

Key Learnings
-------------

- **Model suggestible entities as documents with a specialized index
  configuration:** This could be done as described above in a separate
  collection containing entities from any source. 

- **Index Creation:** If your main collection models all suggestible entities as
  top-level documents already, an index can be created or an existing one

>   augmented to use the index configuration techniques described here.

Reviewer: - **Create an index with these configuration techniques**, if your main collection models all suggestible entities as top-level documents.

> Visit the `GitHub repo <https://github.com/mongodb-developer/atlas-search-as-you-type-suggest>`__ to this solution. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Visit the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/mongodb-developer/atlas-search-as-you-type-suggest>`__ to see this solution. 
```

Key Learnings
-------------

- **Model suggestible entities as documents with a specialized index
  configuration:** This could be done as described above in a separate
  collection containing entities from any source. 

- **Index Creation:** If your main collection models all suggestible entities as
  top-level documents already, an index can be created or an existing one
  augmented to use the index configuration techniques described here.

- **Craft clever queries:** Leverage the index structure, generating rich and
  nuanced queries to match entities and rank suggestions as desired.

Technology and Products

> -----------------------

Reviewer 2: we've generally been removing the technology and products sections since the products are mentioned at the beginning of the page.
